[Docs] mpl2 documentation (#3617)
The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD: src/mpl2/README.md

# Hierarchical Macro Placement

> A Hierarchical Automatic Macro Placer for Large-scale Complex IP Blocks, "Hier-RTLMP".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A hierarchical automatic macro placer for large-scale complex IP blocks, "Hier-RTLMP".
```

### Hier-RTLMP algorithm

```tcl
rtl_macro_placer 
    [-halo_width   halo_width]
    [-min_num_macro    min_num_macro]
    [-max_num_inst max_num_inst]  
    [-min_num_inst min_num_inst] 
    [-tolerance    tolerance]     
    [-max_num_level    max_num_level] 
    [-coarsening_ratio coarsening_ratio]
    [-num_bundled_ios  num_bundled_ios]
    [-large_net_threshold  large_net_threshold]
    [-signature_net_threshold  signature_net_threshold]
    [-halo_width   halo_width] 
    [-fence_lx fence_lx] 
    [-fence_ly fence_ly]
    [-fence_ux fence_ux]
    [-fence_uy fence_uy]
    [-area_weight  area_weight] 
    [-outline_weight   outline_weight] 
    [-wirelength_weight    wirelength_weight]
    [-guidance_weight  guidance_weight]
    [-fence_weight fence_weight] 
    [-boundary_weight  boundary_weight]
    [-notch_weight notch_weight]
    [-macro_blockage_weight    macro_blockage_weight]
    [-target_util  target_util]
    [-target_dead_space    target_dead_space]
    [-min_ar   min_ar]
    [-snap_layer   snap_layer]
    [-bus_planning_flag    bus_planning_flag]
    [-report_directory report_directory]
```

#### Generic Parameters

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-max_num_macro`, `-min_num_macro` | Maximum/minimum number of macros in a cluster. (default 0, 0, integer). |
> | `-max_num_inst`, `-min_num_inst` | Maximum/minimum number of standard cells in a cluster. (default 0, 0, integer). |
> | `-tolerance` | A factor of $(1 + tol)$ is multiplied to the max, $(1 - tol)$ to the min number of macros/std cells in a cluster respectively. This is to improve robustness of hierarchical clustering. (default 0.1, float). |
> | `-max_num_level` | Maximum depth of physical hierarchical tree. (default 2). |
> | `-coarsening_ratio` | The larger the coarsening_ratio, the faster the convergence process. (default 10.0 ,float). | 
> | `-num_bundled_ios` | Specifies number of bundled pins for left, right, top, bottom boundary. (default 3, float). |
> | `-large_net_threshold` | Ignore nets with many connections during clustering, such as global nets. (default 50, integer). |
> | `-signature_net_threshold` | Minimum number of connections between two clusters for them to be identified as connected. (default 50, integer). |
> | `-halo_width` | Horizontal/vertical halo around macros (microns). (default 0.0, float). |
> | `-fence_lx`, `-fence_ly`, `-fence_ux`, `-fence_uy` | Defines the global fence bounding box coordinates. (defaults to core area coordinates). |
> | `-target_util` | Specifies the target utilisation of MixedCluster, and has higher priority than target_dead_space (default 0.25, float). |
> | `-target_dead_space` | Specifies the target deadspace percentage, which influences the utilisation of StandardCellCluster(default 0.05, float). |
> | `-min_ar` | Specifies the minimum aspect ratio $a$, or the ratio of its width to height of a StandardCellCluster from $[a, \frac{1}{a}]$ (default 0.33, float). |
> | `-snap_layer` | Snap macro origins to this routing layer track. (default 4, integer). | 
> | `-bus_planning_flag` | Flag to enable bus planning, recommendation is to turn on bus planning for SKY130, off for NanGate45/ASAP7.  (default false, bool). |
> | `-report_directory` | Save reports to this directory. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-max_num_macro`, `-min_num_macro` | Maximum/minimum number of macros in a cluster. The default value is `0` for both, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-max_num_inst`, `-min_num_inst` | Maximum/minimum number of standard cells in a cluster. The default value is `0` for both, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-tolerance` | A factor of $(1 + tol)$ is multiplied to the max, $(1 - tol)$ to the min number of macros/std cells in a cluster, respectively. This is to improve the robustness of hierarchical clustering. The allowed values are floats `[0, 1)`, and the default value is `0.1`. |
| `-max_num_level` | Maximum depth of physical hierarchical tree. The default value is `2`, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-coarsening_ratio` | The larger the coarsening_ratio, the faster the convergence process. The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `10.0`. |
| `-num_bundled_ios` | Specifies the number of bundled pins for the left, right, top, and bottom boundaries. The default value is `3`, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-large_net_threshold` | Ignore nets with many connections during clustering, such as global nets. The default value is `50`, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-signature_net_threshold` | Minimum number of connections between two clusters to be identified as connected. The default value is `50`, and the allowed values are integers `[0, MAX_INT]`. |
| `-halo_width` | Horizontal/vertical halo around macros (microns). The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `0.0`. |
| `-fence_lx`, `-fence_ly`, `-fence_ux`, `-fence_uy` | Defines the global fence bounding box coordinates. The default values are the core area coordinates). |
| `-target_util` | Specifies the target utilization of `MixedCluster` and has higher priority than target_dead_space. The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `0.25`. |
| `-target_dead_space` | Specifies the target dead space percentage, which influences the utilization of `StandardCellCluster`. The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `0.05`. |
| `-min_ar` | Specifies the minimum aspect ratio $a$, or the ratio of its width to height of a `StandardCellCluster` from $[a, \frac{1}{a}]$. The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `0.33`. |
| `-snap_layer` | Snap macro origins to this routing layer track. The default value is 4, and the allowed values are integers `[1, MAX_LAYER]`). |
| `-bus_planning_flag` | Flag to enable bus planning. The recommendation is to turn on bus planning for SKY130 and off for NanGate45/ASAP7. The default value is disabled. |
| `-report_directory` | Save reports to this directory. |
```

Author: | `-tolerance` | A factor of $(1 + tol)$ is multiplied to the max, $(1 - tol)$ to the min number of macros/std cells in a cluster, respectively. This is to improve the robustness of hierarchical clustering. The allowed values are floats `[0, 1)`, and the default value is `0.1`. |

It essentially means that the min/max number of macros/std cells in a cluster is a soft threshold. For example the min can go even lower than the preset min.

Reviewer 2: Maybe the following?
> Add a margin to the minimum and maximum number of macros/std cells in a cluster. For min, we multiply by (1 - `tol`), and for the max (1 + `tol`). This is to improve the robustness of hierarchical clustering. The allowed values are floats `[0, 1)`, and the default value is `0.1.`

#### Simulated Annealing Weight parameters

Do note that while action probabilities are normalized to 1.0, the weights are not necessarily normalized. 

| Switch Name | Description | 
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-area_weight` | Weight for the area of current floorplan. (default 0.1, float). |
> | `-outline_weight` | Weight for violating the fixed outline constraint, meaning that all clusters should be placed within the shape of its parent cluster. (default 100.0, float). |
> | `-wirelength_weight` | Weight for half-perimeter wirelength. (default 100.0, float). |
> | `-guidance_weight` | Weight for guidance cost, or clusters being placed near specified regions if users provide such constraints. (default 10.0, float). |
> | `-fence_weight` | Weight for fence cost, or how far the macro is from zero fence violation. (default 10.0, float). |
> | `-boundary_weight` | Weight for boundary, or how far the hard macro clusters are from boundaries. Note that mixed macro clusters are not pushed, thus not considered in this cost. (default 50.0, float). |
> | `-notch_weight` | Weight for notch, or the existence of dead space that cannot be used for placement & routing. Note that this cost applies only to hard macro clusters. (default 10.0, float). |
> | `-macro_blockage_weight` | Weight for macro blockage, or the overlapping instances of macro. (default 10.0, float). |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-area_weight` | Weight for the area of current floorplan.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `0.1`. |
| `-outline_weight` | Weight for violating the fixed outline constraint, meaning that all clusters should be placed within the shape of their parent cluster.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `100.0`. |
| `-wirelength_weight` | Weight for half-perimeter wirelength.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `100.0`. |
| `-guidance_weight` | Weight for guidance cost or clusters being placed near specified regions if users provide such constraints.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `10.0`. |
| `-fence_weight` | Weight for fence cost, or how far the macro is from zero fence violation.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `10.0`. |
| `-boundary_weight` | Weight for the boundary, or how far the hard macro clusters are from boundaries. Note that mixed macro clusters are not pushed, thus not considered in this cost.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `50.0`. |
| `-notch_weight` | Weight for the notch, or the existence of dead space that cannot be used for placement & routing. Note that this cost applies only to hard macro clusters.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `10.0`. |
| `-macro_blockage_weight` | Weight for macro blockage, or the overlapping instances of the macro.  The allowed values are floats, and the default value is `10.0`. |
```

## Example scripts

> Examples scripts demonstrating how to run Hier-RTLMP on a sample design of `bp_fe_top` as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example of a script demonstrating how to run `mpl2` on a sample design of `bp_fe_top`:
```
